# User Authentication API Reference Guide And Documentation Overview

A REST API will be used by the user to authenticate requests. The token will be validated by the system before access is granted to the user. The response will be returned to the user after the request has been processed by the server.

## Authentication Methods And Their Descriptions

The user must select one of the following authentication methods before the user can make API requests.

### API Key Authentication Method

An API key will be generated by the system and it will be sent to the user via email after the registration process has been completed by the user. The API key should be stored by the user in a secure location and it should never be shared by the user with other users or third parties.

The key will be included in the header by the user like this:

```
Authorization: ApiKey YOUR_KEY_HERE
```

### OAuth 2.0 Authentication Method And Token Management

The OAuth 2.0 flow will be initiated by the user by redirecting the user to the authorization endpoint. A code will be returned to the user after the user has approved the access request. The code will then be exchanged by the user for an access token which will be used by the user for subsequent requests.

Steps that will be followed by the user:

1. The authorization URL will be opened by the user in a browser
2. Credentials will be entered by the user
3. Access will be approved by the user
4. The code will be copied by the user from the redirect URL
5. The token endpoint will be called by the user with the code

## Request Parameters That Need To Be Sent

The following parameters will be required by the system:

| Parameter | Type | Description |
|---|---|---|
| client_id | String | The identifier that will be used by the system to identify the user's application |
| redirect_uri | String | The URL that will be used by the system to redirect the user after authentication |
| scope | String | The permissions that will be requested by the user from the system |
| state | String | A random value that will be generated by the user to prevent CSRF attacks |

## Error Codes And Their Meanings

The following errors will be returned by the system when problems are encountered by the system during the authentication process:

| Code | Message | What The User Should Do |
|---|---|---|
| 401 | The token provided by the user was not valid | The user should generate a new token |
| 403 | The resource requested by the user was forbidden | The user should check the permissions |
| 429 | Too many requests were made by the user | The user should wait before retrying |

## What Will Happen Next

After authentication has been completed by the user, API requests will be able to be made by the user. The token that was obtained by the user will need to be refreshed by the user every 24 hours. The refresh process will be handled by the user by calling the refresh endpoint.

Additional documentation will be found by the user at our developer portal. Support tickets will be submitted by the user through the help center.
